## Anthony Shepard - Individual Capstone Assessment
Our senior design project is a very interesting foray into networking. The connections for device-to-device and device-to-server are interesting and I am eager to explore more into them. We may end up creating our own network protocol for the server communications as well. I am interested in learning more about networking and the steps involved in linking two devices to ensure that there is minimal latency between the two, which is important for making the game fair for both players. The actual process of making the game itself, both in regards to designing it and developing it are also things that I am looking forward to learning more about. Finally, setting up a server for the networking aspects of the game is another facet that I am eager to explore.
Many of my classes will help guide the development of this project. My Computer Networks class, CS 4065, will be a strong start towards creating connections between client-server. Along with this, many fundamental classes such as Software Engineering (EECE 3093C) will aide in the step-by-step process of development and keeping our project both on track and properly focused. The classes I have taken up to this point have helped me develop a multitude of skills that will be required for this project. One of these is adaptability. Many of these courses have required varied skillsets and coding languages that meant needing to quickly be able to pick up slack and learn how to learn quickly. The other key skill that my classes have developed is teamwork. From my first year with ENED till now in my current classes, I have constantly had group projects that helped me develop skill with working alongside peers, which I look forward to doing in this project.
Through the course of my various Co-ops, I have had several varied experiences with networking. When working with MetroHealth as a Network Operations Center Intern, I had the opportunity to learn about how a network functions for a large-scale domain. I also learned skills with communication, both regarding teamwork and cooperation, as well as in regards to working with clients. At my last co-op, working as an intern for SCATR, a company focused on developing a Zero Trust Transit Virtual Private Network. Through this experience I was able to work with developing network observability tools. While working there I was also able to develop critical thinking skills due to working with unfamiliar tools and languages to solve complicated coding problems.
This is very much a project that I am excited to get working on. I haven’t developed a game, but it has been something I have wanted to do for a while. Making it a multiplayer game is step that adds a lot of complexity, but I think that it has made me more eager to do it because I have developed an interest in networking over the course of my studies. I am also a big fan of fighting games, I have played a couple, and mostly against my groupmate Caleb. Because of this, developing a fighting game alongside him and Zac is a really exciting venture that I am passionate about doing well. I am hopeful that we will be able to eventually put it up on Steam and share it with a wider audience.
Initially, I think that we will need to focus on developing the game so that it can run properly on a single device with two controller inputs. Along with this we will need to decide definitively whether we want to make the game peer-to-peer or client-server because that will change how the networking works. This will also lead us to deciding whether we will use some form of existing network protocol or develop our own. While I do think that it would be interesting to attempt making our own protocol for netcode, after a short discussion with our advisor Professor Giovani Abuaitah, it may be a larger undertaking than we are prepared for and for the scope of our project. I think that my goal for this project is to have a presentable multiplayer game that has the networking setup so that there is minimal latency. I would consider our project a success if we are close, if not able, to put our game on Steam and have it work with online-multiplayer functionality.