## Caleb Copley - Individual Capstone Assessment
During the summer of 2024, myself and Anthony Shepard had an interesting question. We had been playing fighting games for years as a team, why does it take so long to develop one. After some research, we found that the code base for fighting games touched on a lot of interesting concepts that were not touched on in school. Thus, my personal academic perspective on this project revolves around curiosity. The whole point of this project is to familiarize our group with concepts that we each know and use it to create something on our own with the drive of something akin to a co-op project but with the team’s own direction and goals.
Pertaining to experience, most of my curricular experience will not apply here. The only classes that I have taken that I consider to be helpful in this context are  Networking and Software Engineering. Most of the languages I have been taught through classes will not be relevant. Cybersecurity will be relevant but only for a brief section. My general education will assist me in working collaboratively but I would attribute that more strongly to my co-op experiences. All things considered, this is a scenario where I believe that Co-op will vastly outweigh my academic feats.
On the topic of co-op experience, most of it will apply. My co-ops specifically operated within the scope of financial technologies and application development. As such, the most helpful language will be C# (a language I used in my most recent co-op) considering that it is the language base for the Unity engine that we plan on using. User Interface and Backend interaction is also very important when you are working on a team of 4 interns that are attempting to get a product ready for deployment. This is the kind of workflow I expect from my current team. It is to the point that I am tempted to implement the agile workflow to our team. Most of the experience prevalent here will be centered on Resurgent Capital Services as they threw me into the deep and then tossed me a life jacket. 
There is something special about this project. As mentioned in the introduction, myself and Anthony Shepard took something that we are passionate about and broke it down using curiosity and our particular skill set. In the end, I think that is what has me excited. There is so much to learn about so many topics using something that has been around me for years. Making games was a goal I had as a child that I had given up on. Now, I have the chance to make that dream come through in a way that will push me forward. 
Now, as the project begins, there is something that needs to be considered from my own perspective. This idea came about via passion, but passion isn’t the only thing that we need. I will be measuring my own contribution by way of time spent working effectively, and functionality. Additionally, I will be approaching the project with a perspective assist from a number of external sources. My pool of fighting game compatriots runs deep. Business majors, professional players, casual enjoyers, the game can only succeed by appealing to a number of demographics using the input from both those professional and non-professionals.
