## Zach Brown - Individual Capstone Assessment
For my senior project, my group and I are creating a 2-D fighting game based on the characters being clowns. This project will encourage the development of several areas in computer science. The first and foremost is game design and dealing with a framework for game creation, such as Unity or Godot. The second big aspect of this project will be concurrent game play over the network. This will demonstrate our skills of networking to reduce latency as much as possible. The last skills that will be on demonstration is documentation and problem solving of being on a multiple person project.
My college curriculum has helped develop my to the point I can work on this project and give me the ability to further research and expand my skills for this project. My ability to properly use data algorithms and structures to implement several features of the game properly will be invaluable (CS 2028C: Data Structures). The ability to understand proper algorithm time complexity for different inputs is vastly important to improve efficiency and allow for high frame rates and reduce latency (CS 4071: D & A of Algorithms). I will need to use the soft skills I learned in Intro to Public Speaking to rationally discuss with my teammates my reasoning on certain issues and sway them to what I feel is the correct solution. I am also going to use the soft skills I have gained during college to discuss with game testers how they feel about the game and any sticking points that prevented them from having fun.
During my Co-ops I have gained valuable work experience. From my first co-op at Tiny Home Consulting where I learned git, proper documentation, unit testing, and integration testing. This was one of my strongest periods of learning and growing. This experience has helped me become a strong contributor to projects after I left here. This co-op has helped me grow my soft skills to allow for conflicts between team members to be resolved in a peaceful and productive manner. My next co-op was here as well, and I gained simply more skills producing well thought out and readable code. These two co-ops allowed to further expand my set of skills and allowed me to succeed at my next three co-ops. The next three co-ops I worked at was for Siemens in Milford. I was a SSP Co-op here and I worked on research and development of new solutions. These co-ops have allowed to explore into new areas of development that were unfamiliar to me at the time, but have allowed me to go further than I thought I would have been able to.
I am really excited to work on this game. I have never done any game development before even though it was the driving force for me to enter into the field of computer science. I believe this game will help me explore new areas of software development that I have not had the fortune of being able to experience yet. It offers several challenges with the two most interesting to me being reducing network latency and game design. Simply playing video games has helped me get a grasp of fun video games, actually making the game itself is fundamentally different. I will need to create all the systems to allow players to have fun and think way more about the systems in play to improve them over time. 
The next point of reducing network latency is incredibly exciting. I am going to try and develop the back-end to be as little processing as I need to. The genre of fighting games is incredibly net code dependent. The faster and smoother you can make the interactions between players the faster in general you can make the games feel to players. If the net code is not the limiting factor you can make it the players actual senses instead. This is a really exciting task since creating a custom net code for players to interact with is a huge task. It will be a great task to have lots of learning from.