Self Assessment
Anthony Shepard
4/14/2025

My contrinution towards this project that aligned with my original goals in the previous self-assessment are not currently visible. My aim and task was to implement network capabilities for our fighting game, but throughout development we were severely hindered by steep learning curves as this was our first experiences with Unreal Engine. Fortunately, Unreal has a vast amount of documentation and there are many guided tutorials that can be found on YouTube. Unfortunately, I was not able to start working towards aspects of networking for most of this project. The largest hurdles that I faced was that we as a group significantly struggled to develop the core gameplay aspects and basic functionality, so most of my effort went into working on the menus that would eventually be required for setting up network sessions. This was done with a blend of Blueprints, C++ files, and Widgets. This worked well, since it forwarded my progress towards networking, and I got to learn about many of the moving parts in Unreal Engine. I was able to get to the point that I had a start menu as well as an online menu that allowed you to host and search for sessions to join. This did not work for actually joining sessions because we had not developed the functionality to control two players on even one device yet, which the connection would work off of.

There were many instances like this, of having to backtrack to implement functionality for the game once I was caught up with where the game was at. This caused a lot of problems in the end, because when we worked on merging branches towards the end of the project, implementations differed on some base classes which caused all of the groundwork that the menus were structured on to be ineffectual, so our current version does not have the same menu functionality. I learned a lot throught this, albiet a bit late for my liking, about management in github to keep people on the same foundations, as well as taking more charge of development to ensure key milestones are implemented in regards to gameplay. As mentioned before, one of the biggest hurdles for us as a group was lack of prior knowledge on any of the tools we were using. Neither I nor Zac were familiar with Unreal Engine and Caleb was new to learning Blender. This meant that for each step, much more time was spent learning about the tools we were using than actually progressing our project. This did result in me learning a lot about Unreal Engine and game development, which used to seem very daunting, and is now something that I am interesting in continuing to pursue, even if just as a hobby.

Our group accomplished in making a demo that implements some fighting game mechanics including hit detection, movement, and health. We do have pseudo-network functionality, but our current demo is not capable of interfacing with it. I learned a lot about group work and how important clear communication and structured workflow is, mostly due to seeing the consequences of their lack. There were many ups and downs for each of us in this project, but the biggest thing that I believe we struggled with was keeping a proper structure to our work. We did not do a good job in keeping consistent meeting times, which is very apparent in our limited numebr of meetings with our senior design advisor, Professor Giovani Abuaitah. This also impacted our communications, as without consistent meeting times, our discussions about the project and progress were intermittent. Our shortcomings in communication also led to us missing out on the CEAS Expo because we had a miscommunication about whether we were properly signed up for it, which we found out too late that we were not.

My efforts in the project were no greater than any of my other teammates. I believe that all of us put in a good deal of effort, but I also believe that we as a whole could've done better. I spent a lot of time in the beginning phases of the project researching fairly involved methods of netcode and networking that I could hopefully implement into our game. Then as time passed, it was apparent that we were not well enough equiped to handle such methods of networking when there were easier, built-in methods for simpler networking and we didn't even have the capacity to implement those. To be perfectly honest, I do believe that in hindsight, I could've done more. Here at the end of the project I can see how much we have accomplished compared to how much we hoped to. I do intend to continue working on this game after graduation as a passion project because it has been a great opportunity to learn and I want to see it succeed. I would also like to give special recognition to Caleb Copley because I saw firsthand the lengths that he was going to learn Blender, which was entirely new to him, and the dedication towards the project he had. This last week I think there were more days that he got less than 4 hours of sleep, those only coming from collapsing due to fatigue. It pains me that we weren't able to implementing the model that he worked incredibly hard to create, because I think that it was essence of what our game is supposed to be about, clowns fighting each other.