For this semester, I was the design lead for the project. The game was my brain child back during the Summer of 2024 when I wanted to try making a game. Also having the most playtime in fighting games, I had the best idea of design standard and scope for the games itself. Not in a work sense but in a product sense. The skills I decided to hone were creative. I learned Blender, an application noted for being unruly and hard to learn. While I was learning the ropes there were comments in tutorials saying things like "you've only been using it for 3 months? You've got a lot to learn." As such, I have logged multiple hours a day for a couple days a week both on and off books for PUNCHLINE and my personal desire to learn animation. 
In terms of success, I've had a few! I made a stage and a character in blender where the character is minimally animated but even a simple punch took me between thirty minutes and an hour. With that, however, I ran into a complication. Time. My teammate Zach Brown did not use the assets I created because there was a severe miscommunication in terms of "how it works" when it comes to hitboxes. On his end, he thought I was off in my own world. On my end, I believed that hitboxes were generated based on the models actions. As such, Pietro was the only character I modeled and I did it meticulously over the past 3 months. But, because of the time spent, there were a number of fatal miscommunications. I blame myself and Zach in equal measure for simply not talking as much as we should have.